# Luxcium Projects Naming Conventions

In order to document my preferences for names of variable tokens and such, I
decided to create this document to structure my naming conventions pcincipally
in JavaScript / TypeScript projects and in Bash, ShellScript, ZSH projects.

## TypeScript and JavaScript projects

### File name

File names must be all lowercase and may include underscores (_) or dashes
(-), but no additional punctuation. Follow the convention that your project
uses. Filenames' extension must be `.ts` or `.js`. Two files in a same folder
can never share the same name and differe only by the ts/js etension as it may
lead to problems.
[[§](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html#file-name)]

In some rare exceptions type definition files are using UpperCamelCase or
IUpperCamelCase notation, regardless of this exception, a file name must never
differ only by cassing as it will lead to unexpected behaviour on diferent
sytems (UNIX, Linux, macOS, Windows).
### Rules common to all identifiers

Identifiers use only ASCII letters and digits, and, in a small number of cases
noted below, underscores and very rarely (when required by frameworks like
Angular) dollar signs.
[[§](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html#naming-rules-common-to-all-identifiers)]

Give as descriptive a name as possible, within reason. Do not worry about
saving horizontal space as it is far more important to make your code
immediately understandable by a new reader. Do not use abbreviations that are
ambiguous or unfamiliar to readers outside your project, and do not abbreviate
by deleting letters within a word.
[[§](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html#naming-rules-common-to-all-identifiers)]

### IInterfaces vs Interfaces

In my projects I aim at using the `IInterface` notation only for *interfaces*
that represent the *contract* for the shape of an *object* to others (other
parts of the same project internaly, or to other users and consumers external
to the project).

This definition of a contract is for now somehow subjective and should be
defined more formally later, I decided **not** to use a `IInterface` notation
for other *interfaces* that represent an *object* type. *Interfaces* always
begin with an upper case letter but as of now I decided to use the
`xInterface` notation for *interfaces* that have a name that starts with
capital leter **'I'** but are not consider `IInterface`s. For type definitions
other than `IInterface`s and *objects*, type aliases should alway be used.

#### Plain *ordinary* JavaScript object

Normally theses should be
[POJOs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plain_old_Java_object), ordinary
JavaScript *object*, easely serializable, which dose not contain methods. Such
*objects* should not be bound by any *other* special restrictions.
#### Value Object

*Objects* respecting the `IInterface` notation should be considered as *[value
objects](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value_object)* object that contains
attributes but has no conceptual identity, they should be immutable: this is
required for the implicit contract that two value objects created equal,
should remain equal.

#### Immutability

They should be treated as
[immutable](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immutable_object), it is useful for
the value object described with an `IInterface` to be immutable, as client
code cannot put the value object in an invalid state or introduce buggy
behaviour after creation. Example: When people exchange business cards, they
generally do not distinguish between each unique card; they are only concerned
about the information printed on the card. In this context, business cards are
value objects.

### Classes

*Objects* that are not conforming to the `IInterface` notation specified above
should follow the normal `Interface` or `xInterface` notation specified above
unless an *object* contain the `this` *keyword*, require the usage of the
`new` *keyword* to be instantiated, or need to have methods added to its
prototype. If an *object* does not only consist of fields, or of fields and
static methods, such *object* shoud be defined with the `class` *keyword* and
therefor must be intantatiated from the *keyword* `new` or from a static
method of that *object* returning an instance of that *object*, or from other
code that use these mechanisme to resolve to an instance of such *object*.

Class, interface, record, and typedef names are written in UpperCamelCase.
Unexported classes are simply locals: they are not marked @private and
therefore are not named with a trailing underscore.
[[§](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html#naming-class-names)]

Type names are typically nouns or noun phrases. For example, Request,
ImmutableList, or VisibilityMode. Additionally, interface names may sometimes
be adjectives or adjective phrases instead (for example, Readable).
[[§](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html#naming-class-names)]

### Functions

In most, if not all cases, a function should always be defined with the
`function` *keyword* if it is defined at the *global* or *module* scope level,
unless a type needs to be assigned which would resuld in the use of the
`const` *keyword* *i.e.*:

```typescript
   const functionName: FunctionType = (parameter)=> parameter &&
   'someFunctionDefinition'
```

In all other cases (i.e. function defined whithin an other function), the arow
function should be used except in the cases where its behaviour differ with a
function defined using the `function` *keyword*.


The [[§](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html)] symbol denotes
sections inspired from the *Google JavaScript Style Guide*.
